Start collecting info about others using OS geo software.

CSIRO are implementing geoserver by june 2011 because they have a strong need, being a scientific institution, to share data. standards are an important part of the strategy.
https://www.seegrid.csiro.au/wiki/bin/view/Infosrvices/GeoServer
--------
Motivations:
Passionate about geospatial. Did a PhD about it.
Worked in LG and recognised LG is a low opex sector. This means the commercial software is not that affordable. Commercial software doesn't develop specific functionality because it is less profiatble.
Commercial software has caused fragmentation. Planning at higher levels (e.g. State and Federal) is frustrated by framentation in LG.
Cost excludes 'everyone' in an organisation from using geospatial. In LG, I believe geospatial tools should be as ubiquitous as word processors. Therefore, LG needs a low cost option particularly for smaller orgnaisations.
Realise commercial benefits.
--------
Benefits:
Cost
Standardisation - improved data sharing
Avoid Proprietry lock in
Control - start a branches
Indivdual Organisation control - fund any change they want
Open and transparent
Maximum functionality
--------
Challenges:
Accepting a new way to think.
Overcoming outdated perceptions:
~Open Source is viable.
~Open Source has support.
~Open Source has broad functionality.
~Open Source is not Mickey Mouse.
~Open Source is high in usability.

--------
Thinking about project structure...

Open Plug and Play Local Government Appliance OPPLGA

Aim:
1. To create a virtual appliance that delivers an ICT architecture and a suite of application that can primarily be implemented by local government organisations.
2. The appliance must be implementable by non-technical users in less that half a day.

Organisation:
Project will be run as a meritocracy, which is a system of governance where appointments are made and responsibilities assigned to individuals based upon demonstrated ability (merit).

Structure:
Project manager -  me with support from KDN

Teams (sub projects??): one for each app (group by application families):
Architecture Teams:
Ubunutu
postgresql/postgis
gvSIG
geoserver/openlayers
wavemaker
apache/jetty/tomcat
documentation
implementation/production releases/testing

One key point that must be addresses by all teams is how to make any required data independant of the application

Application Teams:
Asset Management

Rules:
All teams need to use Ubuntu.
All documentation will be created using OpenOffice.
Published documentation will be in PDF format.
Must manage change - therefore must use as is tools (e.g. Ubuntu)
Accept updates automatically. (Using VM allows user to rollback easily and data stored elsewhere)


